Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Hi, how are you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How are you doing with everything that's going on.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Look at your treatment plan.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Are you still working in New Mexico or did they shut some stuff down
Robert Russell: No, I'm still I'm still working in
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, while I have you here in China. Pull up your treatment plan, um,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How has the anxiety than
Robert Russell: Just a pet. Like I said that anxiety sometimes like
Robert Russell: Like whenever like to stress our like too much stuff like take on too much stuff at once.
Robert Russell: But like, for the most part, like, like my medication like with my medication like anxiety like towards the end of the day, but I'm trying, I'm switching my days four nights because i'ma start working during different time than I was. So I probably have like a little bit do with it.
Robert Russell: But like, for the most part, like
Robert Russell: Like, I don't know. I really don't have that thing. And I guess like every anxiety of like situations I have Bible you're having it like I'm just here at work. So pretty much come for on that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So it's more situations that you know okay
Robert Russell: Yeah, all right. Yeah, like I have to where I have if I have to like talk to someone or something I have to do is, I haven't. Right. I have a hard problem with
Robert Russell: Like maybe like talking about certain situations like talking to people, just because my anger. I don't want to make. Not bad, bad and
Robert Russell: Somehow I really don't know how to I don't really know how to talk. Whenever I know what I'm saying is, is the truth. And again, I'm like, I'm a whole heartily know and then I get like a little bit more aggressive when I talk so
Robert Russell: It's kind of hard for and then I do. I never listen or nothing like that wants to get like to point. I don't stop until I just tend to avoid situations like that for now because
Robert Russell: It's embarrassing. Sometimes
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you'll as you're going through the process. Are you aware that okay I'm getting out of control, but you don't know how to reel it back in.
Robert Russell: But it's like
Robert Russell: It's like not even sometimes not even that much time even contemplate that like it's just like, or maybe I blacked out or something. I don't remember. Sometimes it's like that where I can see it and and I
Robert Russell: And I can buy this never, I guess I never like tried to back away from it or anything like that are I just always gave into it but
Robert Russell: I guess more time. I never thought about it, right, stop instantly matter.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When was the last time you had this experience.
Robert Russell: Everyday, everyday, everyday, everyday. No, I just sometimes every day. It just I escaped brush it
Robert Russell: Aside like slack on sleep because I got it. I was working on from 10 at night till seven in the morning and then staying up until like fiber in the afternoon when my girlfriend gets home from work.
Robert Russell: And then the next step, or the or the baby. But now you got me. I got a better job so
Robert Russell: I think it's gonna get better. Yeah, that's mainly what it was. I was like, very tired. But then I have a hard time seeing it.
Robert Russell: And I can only sleep at certain times like as how to schedule was like I couldn't. And most of the time wasn't when I was tired.
Robert Russell: So, but now I have a little more time to sleep like when I want to sleep. So when I got into the five to if it was for me to lay down and take a nap, because it was quiet and I wouldn't, I wouldn't necessarily take a nap during certain times I get tired.
Robert Russell: So, but I think it's going to get a little bit better now.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So where are you working now.
Robert Russell: It's a
Robert Russell: It's called Cargill I it's like a meat.
Robert Russell: Pack processing like place, but I think I need to do everything, like a butcher it packages. They shipped off like that. You mean all of it there. So, like, not, not necessarily like
Robert Russell: Like cutting up animals like that like packaging and stuff.
Robert Russell: I mean, it's like, stuff like that are like putting like stuffing like food and Bob meeting box marking it up and stuff like that. Yeah, like, stuff like that. Because like I know and be a chilling out or something like that. But it's like $17 an hour so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Good.
Robert Russell: It's good. Yeah, the schedule and it's just like this is like a, it's like a like a warehouse. So it's like repetitive work. It's the same stuff every day. So it's like, you mean like guaranteed is give you guys the amount of work every day and I
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Know you say you like that you like the
Robert Russell: Structure and the reputation. Yeah, so keep my mind is enough time and do my best. But yes, that'd be cool.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So someone that's conditioned to structure repetition. I can imagine that things that go outside of that structure could enhance them of anxiety, which would then your, your release of the anxiety is more angry output.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You seal but younger you release you know you feel anxiety you release anger.
Robert Russell: Yeah, I do. Yeah, I do like that sometimes miss read and then slide just get mad because I like because there's like so many like
Robert Russell: I just not very I'm not patient like I'm not. It is very weird very complex because like I am, but I ain't and I like
Robert Russell: My head is kind of like a messed up messed up a little bit. Sometimes, and I've got my real thing is I just don't start. I think I take everything as if it was someone coming at me like every time I
Robert Russell: Approached somebody, no matter who would is I approached them when it when it's the first time users like that. It's always like in my head that it's like
Robert Russell: Like it's like sizing each other up. That's it. I mean, that's it. Like some like off the top. That's what it's like
Robert Russell: Until, and then it's the best like that a lot of things like when I first goal into efforts approach it because everywhere. I mean, you can't walk into it like
Robert Russell: half hearted or with your head down further and see that when you take it again take advantage of that shit. You got to carry yourself. Right. And there was a lot of years. It's not like 234567 years of more than that, like a lot of years so
Robert Russell: So I got out of my head. And now I'm not here and I
Robert Russell: live out here, but that's that's what my problem is I just I go at things like that and then like a lot of people, then there's some people that take offense to it and some people that
Robert Russell: Take it the wrong way and then some people that take it personally. And so it. So it hits different people, different ways. And then, however, he has different people.
Robert Russell: And I react to that. And then I'm so I'm pretty much in the wrong from the beginning, from the way I'm coming out in situation. So I come out of a situation. Real sour and then I get mad whenever they know
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're good in the fact that you are able to reflect and see the consequences of the anger, but it's matching it is catching it beforehand.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And what to do with that is it's it's really just you're already analyzing. We just want you to analyze a little beforehand. So if this is a movie, you've already created the last scene, but you haven't done editing at the beginning.
Robert Russell: And so there's a lot of things that's happening at the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Beginning to make you aware that okay I'm being triggered and for you. It's like saying go into survival mode.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And with that survival comes out, aggression, because of the condition you have for seven years, you know, being incarcerated. So I get that it's going to take time to do that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But when you're able to be more aware of when it's happening and why what you already have your why, you know, now you can challenge that why because you know you develop the few relationships where you know that they're not really here to attack me
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, not in the prison cell. This is where I'm at now I'm at work. Well, I'm at home, you know,
Robert Russell: Right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yes, spouse, this person loves me were together for a reason. We're a team. So it's that self talk that you wouldn't have to continuously do to de escalate yourself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right.
Robert Russell: And that's what it is, I think, I don't have a lot of that and like I think I am like say they have like a evil in and a good person.
Robert Russell: I think like they myself talk, I think.
Robert Russell: Like sometimes it's beneficial if I sit there and talk myself up because I have to psych myself up for something like let's say it was like a position at work and I want it like as a higher conditioning and they stay safe. Whoever wants
Robert Russell: To come in to tell us. So if I was in that position and my head's not like hell yeah I was going to talk about it.
Robert Russell: I'll be embarrassed. First off, we're going to talk about it, and then I'll then I'll be thinking like, who's watched me go in there and talk about it, then I'm thinking like, What are they thinking, I want to talk about, like, stuff like that. Yeah.
Robert Russell: And then I react off that and then I'll, I'll place there was like in my head and I will get mad that person I can in my whole that I was just trying to ask them about positioning their next you know they're they're kind of like that for
Robert Russell: Some time I'm playing with real sometimes like that like just Teddy like that. Something real
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, is it possible because of being incarcerated that you're more focused on your external environments. The outside that there's very little time to really assess what's going on inside which is so yeah
Robert Russell: Definitely, definitely. So I don't really matter. That's all you had to, you had to fake it till you make it all at once. People front like arriving
Robert Russell: Like because like there's nobody was like dude like no such thing as a friend or nothing like that. No, like so, like, it's all it is, is everybody and then you can talk to
Robert Russell: Him and then like people like to begin with out here and you see in there. Like if you see like so like so off the rip you already know everybody's just faking it. But so that's what it is because it like you subconsciously, you know,
Robert Russell: Like, and that's how it is. That's what so suck so bad because it's not, you have to worry about one person and you got to worry about.
Robert Russell: 500 people and that has to know and everybody's grimy and and that's an estimate. Does it did mess my head up and and now I gotta run. But I do gotta live out here.
Robert Russell: And I be out here, and I am starting to like read it reiterate with like with my family, my brother, my dad and then my girlfriend I with her for a few years and then our kids so
Robert Russell: What we do, I'm doing definitely doing better. I definitely, definitely do better from when I started. And now that I have my that
Robert Russell: Whatever prefer Prozac dinner. Some Prozac. That's definitely helps me out, whether it's placebo or whether it's not like I in my head. It house now announced, you know, like, so it works. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you have a combination of factors, the medication your social supports while I have you here. And thanks for showing up. I want to give you some skills to that you can apply and we're going to go to the treatment plan because that was what the original purpose was but
Robert Russell: All right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I want to give you as much resources that you can get as possible so that you can be able to regulate the anxiety because when we initially met that was what she wanted to do.
Robert Russell: Yeah, we're a trigger.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Place that I want to manage my anxiety. You told me that a schedule helps you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And you're at, you know, you wanted to create some healthy relationships so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's good. Yeah.
Robert Russell: And for my anxiety.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what I found helpful is a we already talked about catching it.
Robert Russell: Before
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Before I get to the last thing. And so the way you do it is, you've already identified. All right, my mind is telling me that I'm back, and I'm back incarcerated again and this is survival.
Robert Russell: So you test that reality.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So, for example, you're at work and it's a situation where you're about to go into the office, you're gonna have to remind yourself as you're walking or you're going
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Robert, you're at work. You're not incarcerated. This is a survival mode. This is about you wanting the position.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So if you notice all of that focus was on you, you, you, I didn't say anything else about your environment.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because that's where the anger and the anxiety as being high end because there's so much focus on the external surroundings. So your self talk is going to be more everything about you.
Robert Russell: Robert, you are at work.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Robert, you are going into this room because you want this position for yourself. And even if you see the external like you're getting angry.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I want you to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Know and serve it. And then, on a scale of one to 10 break that anger or if it's anger offers things it because you have two things as battling
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You have your anxiety that's been internalized and what you discharge out his anger. So when you start seeing that anxiety. You're going to say, on a scale of one to 10 my anxiety right now is the example let
Robert Russell: Me think okay
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This is 697. All right, so what can I do to make it five.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Now right there that talk is already diffusing that the anxiety.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because what feeds anxiety is that we don't catch it. We don't name it and we keep it inside by giving it a number it attaches itself from you and now it's a separate thing that you can control.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The anxiety and side when you don't identify it. You don't give it a number. There's no level of control for you. And so that's why the anger gets released
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because it's a feeling of powerlessness. It's a feeling of anger and all of that. Just us out.
Robert Russell: So those are the basic
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Things that you can do with identifying it doing that self talk that's more internal with you the outside and then giving it a number
Robert Russell: Alright experience any anxious
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Moments today.
Robert Russell: I'm not taking a pretty good day. Oh, good. That's clear. Well, crack at accept God doesn't have a good news today so
Robert Russell: My, my job, that job so
Robert Russell: Good. Yeah, yeah.
Robert Russell: And so yesterday was a bad day. Was it yesterday.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: My bad. Yeah. Yeah. What happened yesterday.
Robert Russell: I thought well i i don't know i was off an hour or so but i just i wasn't like, do I have my job. I had either time problems with them. And then my
Robert Russell: My girlfriend was sick, and I was in the dentist. I was in the dentist in the chair in the dentist, you're going to get a tooth pulled yesterday and then their social services called and said that they had just got a call.
Robert Russell: And that for us to meet them. So I left a dentist to go and it was right before group. So I lead magnet to go talk to them and then it was it was a
Robert Russell: Bunch of for a bunch of bullshit and and then so and then that then right after we're done. After all, that was. And then, and then I
Robert Russell: Like their social services left and I thought that it was six o'clock and as calling you guys and I know right. Whenever I'm fine. Oh 701 so that's what happened.
Robert Russell: I was paying attention. So I got sidetracked cuz I was I was everything was supposed to go to like get my tooth and come to group and then it went to a surprise meeting with someone said someone called CPS because
Robert Russell: They heard that I heard someone say that they're going to get a stay at home or Sunday report was because someone heard someone say they're gonna get stinky when they get home.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: About your kids.
Robert Russell: Yeah, okay.
Robert Russell: But it was a, I don't know, like, I don't know. It's crazy. It's, it's weird, but it's nothing. Now it's a dead issue, but still, it's not so nobody wants to hear that stuff.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, and
Robert Russell: Especially nobody nobody in this town.
Robert Russell: Nobody in this town even knows me so like there's like there's only like a handful of people that are even like that had to have that sort of intimacy of my family to even like
Robert Russell: So like, because I can. Nobody knows. Like, I'm just barely been here. So, like, like it's just like, this is really frustrating because to know to know who the people that are that are finished situations that I like at the school.
Robert Russell: And it's just it's alarming, I will talk about it, but still it was, I was just frustrated and guessing you guys offer an hour.
Robert Russell: Yeah, but it's cool. Everything's good now so service is there, they understand and they were apologetic and just let us know that there's a lot of
Robert Russell: Just it's not, no matter where you go, good environment to the schools are real scandalous over there, too. They don't do nothing.
Robert Russell: Nothing like if your kid gets in trouble. They'll right away causal services and say that there's problems with like say like take its toll free
Robert Russell: Or whatever it's called, picking our whatever don't teacher takes is no other way every day like
Robert Russell: The over here. That's how they don't want to do nothing. So right away, they're going to put it off. And if we don't go that policy since we're working on stuff. And if we don't go there and drop what we're doing to go have an onsite in an
Robert Russell: Interview with a parent and teacher, whatever, then right away. We're bad parents and then they
Robert Russell: And then that's crazy. And then when it went, then that's how I stand in in stem from that. And then someone fabricated story.
Robert Russell: So that they wouldn't look like an idiot, calling for services for nothing. And then it and then they come in and they had us go to the school to pick our kid up for something happened and they use that same scenario to
Robert Russell: threaten the kids to go to job the cops and to get us to leave work and come get the kid and to get the CPS to try to get us in trouble with
Robert Russell: With for coming to get our kids from school and stuff.
Robert Russell: It was messed up like they try. They told him, get our status and basically was they told us we couldn't get our care for school.
Robert Russell: And then when we got it came out our kitchen school until our kids that told them that they that their ground and all that stuff.
Robert Russell: Called told our call CPS and told her told them that we came and took our kids from school to ground them and she like that pretty much like that.
Robert Russell: They are not even lying. It's that that pretty much like that, wow yeah baby lady I know when I talked to a lady, and she told me she said, I spent
Robert Russell: Because I don't listen, that's real time I listen I listen. So I took off walking and then I came back and they talked to my girlfriend and then
Robert Russell: She said, I just want you to know. We came here to learn to apologize to you guys, but you guys know that there's wrong we see where you're coming from. But yeah, that's what that was about yesterday.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. In that situation, the whole investigation process when it's with child abuse.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Produces a lot of anxiety and anger.
Robert Russell: All. Exactly, yes ma'am, especially whenever that was a fabricated story for someone like it was like the lady like the lady was like so concerned and caring and needed like us to really understand that.
Robert Russell: We're so lucky that the parents aren't calling the cop because he was tickling someone and they said. And the teacher said that he was choking them.
Robert Russell: And and but the so then they can validate, who is just tickling cylinder. None of the kid, and they were playing
Robert Russell: For this ESL teacher said that he was choco, in essence, that's what she saw what it was and she made a big old thing there. And that's where it's from.
Robert Russell: And then she came and taught like once a character. Sorry. We went right down there and talk to her, and it was a dedication. Everything was cool. And that was a week ago. This went down and then yesterday is when I made a report for that incident.
Robert Russell: Yeah, so, and they've been out of school too because that coronavirus
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh, yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's a lot
Robert Russell: Yes, it was weird is definitely real weird
Robert Russell: Well, anyway.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What I'm hearing to though is that the support of two parents being able to go and respond so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It was that communication like with your spouse because in these moments you want to find out what worked well.
Robert Russell: Well, yeah, that's
Robert Russell: That's definitely like if I just let her talk against the important stuff out of the way and then then she she knows how to get me to shut up and
Robert Russell: Let that I cannot get mad at fresh because I get mad frustrated at her know how to get me to be quiet. So then then show
Robert Russell: late breaking the lace be on game and she'll tell me how what happened then.
Robert Russell: I'll then I'll go. I like more rational because I know everything like more. I want to know, because then when they come in, they don't tell you hey look, turns out you're not in trouble. I want to assure you, I'm not sure when I didn't
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Everything.
Robert Russell: Like that they can actually like like you fucked up and then 30 minutes into it. They want to try to call me gotta tell you, Oh no, not
Robert Russell: Like that, like, they definitely wrong. So that's why I'm glad blessed with my girlfriend, because she's, she's my mediator before all that most the time, but sometimes she's at work. And that's when my shit goes down lot which is
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Which is not dead and mediate
Robert Russell: Have she
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: She calmed me down.
Robert Russell: Unless you just like a little angel, I guess, I don't know. She just knows how just like what to say. Because like it just like
Robert Russell: Does anything are like she just makes me realize our show. Having realized or say something to like just to or like grabbed my arm and pull me away like whatever or
Robert Russell: Somebody ever like to go smoke or something, anything like eat something, there's always something that I'll take my mind off.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Robert Russell: And then talk to students knows that she's got like a buck a little bump of the tricks that work. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So there we go. You have something that you know work well and it's just in it through your spouse. It's the physical touch the sensory of touching you. Because right there that touch also brings you to present situation, a
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Hurry, to really tap back into what's going on right now remember what's important, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so even when she's not there. Maybe just reminding yourself of something. She would tell me what how she
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Wants you to, you know, to react in this situation, we want you to get right into that present moment when these activities are rising but I found helpful to is not to communicate it when your ears irritated. So
Robert Russell: There's no one. That's my biggest thing.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Repeat that you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Know you were morning you say I will not communicate in my irritation. Today I will not
Eat
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And your this is the time where you have to plant some self talk, you know, so that you can really be present in the moment and not digress back to that incarceration time and you have to work harder because you have your turn over seven years of experience.
Right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But this is hard work. But you're already beating addiction. So, I mean, you can do it, you know, you've already beat the statistics, you know,
Robert Russell: You haven't yet.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Have a healthy relationship, be a good father you already
Robert Russell: A. Definitely. Yeah, I got to such as a statistics be I got my parole. Like, I don't have no role or probation or stuff like that and I've been offered it
Robert Russell: For enough years to be like, but I've been blessed like this program and because even though. Like, like the group counseling.
Robert Russell: I mean, I haven't made as many individual counseling or last have supposed to be made, but I made a lot in the time that I've been on the program, not just the right heart but with the programs. I've been within the last year or so.
Robert Russell: So it does definitely help and then now getting off the medication, it's
Robert Russell: It's cool gonna do I'm gonna keep going to some sort of counseling after I'm done. Just for a little bit, till I get my just trying to, I got my stuff under control for temperature. The last thing I want to do is mess up what I have going on now.
Robert Russell: Yeah, anything like in my anger my anxiety my addiction or anything. I wonder. So when I get it all 100% lot then all
Robert Russell: Y'all good, but I think like the Suboxone I think I'm doing like non getting weaned off because from where I was. I first came in, I'm already more than halfway off of it. So that's good. Yeah, so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You already
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Have to trust you already have the trust because when you should stop the Iranian think this was someone that was manipulating that you know how validate. Was that hard to say. You
Robert Russell: Know that's crazy.
Robert Russell: But she said, I told her I told her, Tom, I feel
Robert Russell: Like usually
Robert Russell: Are willing to be like that because I do here because like like some of the people in group like I'd like
Robert Russell: It's crazy, like how they like. They think like that like that like what they're saying is believable. Like when they're saying it like like that they could even believe it themselves like
Robert Russell: It's crazy. Some of the things like they liked how they tried to get over on stuff like like this is like crazy at your bow I trip out. That's why I just
Robert Russell: Had to just say that I am blessed. I'm grateful because when I was out here trying to buy on speech because these guys in group make it look like they make it look like they
Robert Russell: Go to 15 different people and buy some boxes like if they don't get this. Like, it's not the case for me, man, it was I was doing bad trying to find some boxing fight.
Robert Russell: And then I got into programming. So that's like, that's one of the things I do like they say, Oh, I can go why off the streets are like, which they don't get what they want, right away and now
Robert Russell: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's where, that's where people that need to find more skills and more resources.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know yeah really assess the situation and saw you know all the benefits that you have despite your situation like I'm doing good.
Robert Russell: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I want a message. Yeah.
Robert Russell: But then I got a lot to a lot a lot of stuff now like for the post to like
Robert Russell: Three years ago, like or know about to happen after about two and a half years. Three years like whenever I first got I just had a bag.
Robert Russell: Bag of holding a backpack full of clothes. I was literally I have now I have, we have a two story apartment stuff with stuff and the kids have TVs and Nintendo's and like, we're good. We're like, so a nationalist in two and a half year three years.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Wow. Yeah. And
Robert Russell: Not all of it was done all of it being doing good, like decided on Suboxone program have I've been doing good, because I first first first prison.
Robert Russell: I was I was almost a shift it but then like, Damn, I got on a soapbox and program. And then I was good. I could do it ever since. About two years I've been cleans and good working ever since. Doing good. Yeah.
Robert Russell: And
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's because you have a sibling, and your dad was an addict. Right.
Robert Russell: Right. Yeah. Yeah.
Robert Russell: They're all like
Robert Russell: Yeah, they're clean to my dad is clean and my brother. He's on he's on parole. He's clean
Robert Russell: So I think the test comes whenever you're off parole. That's when cuz like actually done, he just did a lot of time to. So after that.
Robert Russell: And say, I think it's a little easier. Whenever they have that dangling over your head like go back present for a couple years. I think it's like
Robert Russell: Little more incentive to stay clean but like whenever they hand you your freedom back and then you stay clean, then that's I think that's where this account.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is now the discipline comes in.
Robert Russell: For exactly, that's what. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Yeah, that's it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So, you know, it seems like from what you said that you're making some some progress with managing your anxiety and give you a free few skills to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Something else that helps is the breathing. So, um, what happens with anxiety, right, if you notice your breathing. You do Excel is short breaths. When you're angry. You might feel that racing heartbeat.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But the breathing helps regulate the body. It helps diffuse the brand style of this is an anxious moment, you know, let's go into fight mode, right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's the middle of that fight right of our police response. But when you allow your body to have a different response, it sends a signal back to the brain to regulate to comment. So when you're upset. You know, there's the shortness of breath and run. There's the shortness of breath, but
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Regulate the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The body. You want to excel for longer periods so cost 711 breathing and what you do is you inhale for seven seconds but you excel for a longer period of time. Be 11 seconds.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You put your hand on your chest, one hand on your stomach.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And we feel that you're in a situation of anxiety and you feel comfortable enough to do it. You literally inhale.
Exhale,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I just do that. Now, one time and I literally feel a difference.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It regulates the breathing the fire, it pulls everything down.
Right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Try with me so I can see that in the situation, you'll be
Robert Russell: Right, so you breathe in for seven out for 11
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, so I'll get it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Out for you. So inhale.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: 1234567 XL 123456
Robert Russell: And then
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You take them on air. Yeah, yeah.
Robert Russell: Yes, ma'am. I think we're definitely work because I do sometimes take this time to breed. So, and I know that it does work. So
Robert Russell: Because it doesn't have to send
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. Is there anything you want to add to your treatment plan a current things that you want skills or information.
Robert Russell: To get
Robert Russell: If I get I think if I like my anxiety, that's my main deal if
Robert Russell: Everything is finished my anxiety, I think.
Robert Russell: I just, I think I go off that act off of it. However, my mood is how my actions will be. Yeah, yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You've been disciplined in other areas you can discipline yourself in this me
Robert Russell: Yes, that's right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Alright, so, um, you set a schedule. So you have you have your routine that you're still doing
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Since identify your triggers that are what we should like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You said, avoiding certain places and certain people have you identified any other triggers.
Robert Russell: I think sometimes like
Robert Russell: Like some like some
Robert Russell: Maybe some music. I shouldn't I should like refrain from listening to, because the guy could get some YouTube like
Robert Russell: A aggravating you're angry. Like sometimes I think like I think sometimes it plays a part. But other than that, it's just not not my thing is not
Robert Russell: Take because I like a yes person. I don't want to tell nobody knows because I myself don't ever want to be told, oh, that's my argument asking is because I have a real big
Robert Russell: Failure of being let down or telling told no, I just avoid asking guard so I don't have to answer. I don't like this. I just cut myself out and do without a lot
Robert Russell: Because I will never know because I don't want to be told no. So that's my biggest thing. That's what my biggest thing is
Robert Russell: And that's why I get some interesting things I am inches trying to ask pressure to do stuff.
Robert Russell: Is because a failure of being told no button. So I think if I do work on all my stuff a little bit and reading and doing all that. And then I think I am definitely getting a little bit better. A lot better actually
Robert Russell: Because I just the way they like cuz like usually like I was in a scenario like, why wouldn't have never we bought my job. Like, I went to my job.
Robert Russell: The other day and I would have never done that, like, like in the past, I would have never, I would just let them do be done because I did me dusty and
Robert Russell: I but I went there. I showed him improved and got it back, but like I would have never done that, like back anytime prior like a few years ago.
Robert Russell: I would have just lost it and gotten done without you I mean within
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The day
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When they did that two hours or something like that, something
Robert Russell: I was it was it was from that it was won't accept my work when I have to go occurrences and if you have too many minutes late.
Robert Russell: Or clocking out too early or anything like that. It'll add that occurs and you only get five for termination. Well, whenever all that stuff going down my my record got like 11 occurrences.
Robert Russell: And I and occurrences that can be calling or human go chop it up and it went on to 11 and then they go up into the office and told me, and I try to explain to them that it was
Robert Russell: From whatever my clocking was messed up my clock and we've messed up like two and a half weeks and it was saying as clocking in but
Robert Russell: What I really, I really owe the clocking in. So I went and I was arguing about my checking in and computers. It was showing it after the clock and but then it was showing that it was weird. And then they find dictate
Robert Russell: For my pay, but they only fixed the occurrences to where I was down to the so I didn't have to get fired didn't pick up all the way they just took it down to where they can let you stay working
Robert Russell: And then I did call in, because I should have should have the five occurrences and later on. A few months later I did calling because I sick and stuff like that. And then it
Robert Russell: Put me to where I shouldn't have been. And then I went to explain it to them. Look guys ever to myself away and she didn't want to hear it. And then I went to the head, dude. And he just told me he pretty much told me that that lady's crazy callback listener.
Robert Russell: So, yeah.
Robert Russell: We'll get all that was in the mix, too. And the other day and then like that was a day before yesterday so oh
Robert Russell: Yeah, and then a not we're not on top of that. That was a second time that this has happened.
Robert Russell: But last time. The last night manager, listen to me. She went in there and she actually looked in and she wouldn't see not true, this time.
Robert Russell: The manager didn't have one here at word I was saying like looked at me like I was lying piece of crap. And when I was trying to steal time that was saying I was here when I wasn't here and told me that I was fired and the balance and not come back.
Robert Russell: Then I went to talk to the main dude Jimmy and he that's what he told me he was pretty much only a listen to her. She's crazy.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: With almost definitely been a scary situation. No.
Robert Russell: I can get my job.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Robert Russell: Yeah, because then child support. Oh, start trying to take my license per page I hear nothing. They don't care why don't have a job or why they just want their money to try
Robert Russell: This one Emily there and if not, then they started doing crazy stuff man they taking your life and trying to put you in jail nowadays.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You have such a success story. And like a good outlook on on situations. Um, how come you don't speak up more group and share those experiences.
Robert Russell: I just I just feel like like because I really, I do like take, I just don't
Robert Russell: Sometimes starting a more comfortable. There's a few those people like to see that in there but like it now. The group is different than I think it's like it's just definitely changed but like there for a minute, like there was one person that
Robert Russell: Just like it was just like he was. I just want to say he's wanted someone I don't know if you wanted a girl to say, hey, all gate you are
Robert Russell: Just like it's like real discouraging Megan. Megan and everybody like just like for one one point. Everybody was on this trip that they needed. They needed a name brands and then like
Robert Russell: And then they spend a whole time trying to scam that lady to give them give her, give her guilt like milligram more like it was sucking, and I get
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: One.
Robert Russell: Like buts. No, I was just sizes like non standard cut and when they asked me, I'll answer. And because I was really grateful because I was out there, like I said,
Robert Russell: I know they're trying to buy Suboxone and speak to not do drugs and stuff. And it was oh my god it was a word, it was worse than trying to find regular drugs.
Robert Russell: Because it's more heart. I kind of went out there and find regular job easier to find some Boston for me anyway, it was like next to impossible. So like, I'm very blessed to be and then to have you had a program to where I can
Robert Russell: Get the counseling and medication and then get weaned off it the right way, whenever it's time to get off of it as opposed to having it and not having it.
Robert Russell: Like kick off Suboxone more than one time.
Robert Russell: It was because I was in prison and now it's forced to because that's where and then so I will kick came for us. And it was, it's like, it's not like a one week.
Robert Russell: Two week thing like you literally like fill the sentence for, like, like a month or so it's no longer like it's crazy it's so worth
Robert Russell: It. I mean, they kind of good kind of like after like a week or two, they kind of ease up and stuff but like it's
Robert Russell: It's, it's crazy. It's the worst. It's the worst only like is worse bad. But then now that how that Doc day bro has her, she explained to how they kicked down and then they have that stuff after your medicine that how to lose the value system to so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, you
Got
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It. Thanks for sharing that observation for me because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, I'm just focus on the therapy and not the meditation and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To hear that that is bothersome is like okay you know i i like to see it from that perspective, because I'm thinking, you know, sometimes out to him out, because I'm like, well, it's the medication.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so here for someone else. But you know what's the big deal. You know, as far as fighting about the generic versus the branding and how that right
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I thought it was just me.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, because I'm saying I'm tuna.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Now, because of the therapy. So I'm feeling the validation, like, okay, well maybe I can you know
Robert Russell: See that this
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Can be bothersome for other people that
Robert Russell: I know is
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Why we just harping on this small little thing.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But again, that's when the medication is the only support.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So that primary focus. Maybe we'll spend all that time on that.
Robert Russell: But when
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You have additional resources under your belt, you can just do your check in and then. All right, let's get the score you know
Robert Russell: I guess that's why I'm so blessed because I do have a lot of additional support says non medication with that does help me out that like
Robert Russell: Because there was times that I had like you said that I learned how to do because there was a lot of times I handled the occasional I had with my support. And it got me through like the worst of days like
Robert Russell: So I know that I know that we could do it. If I had to do it. So I guess it is kind of a company
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Robert Russell: I guess these guys say seems like someone that can help them that I guess I'm going to help them be sick.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And maybe also remind them that there's
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Other resources aside.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah I want is more of you all to speak up and group about the benefits of climate other resources we find medication.
Robert Russell: Because, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We're man back to April said that since I can show lip service, you know, we're paid to be
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: A blah, blah, blah. When is from someone else to have that shared experience is like, wow, you know,
Robert Russell: I think of so I
Robert Russell: Yeah, and I definitely, I definitely go off with to boldly, that's why I that's that's the, like, I don't like to support medicine. I do have some of those I learned I do definitely have some but
Robert Russell: That my support from my like my outside non medication or support is my is the best because like, like I said, like, and I've done it twice with nothing like
Robert Russell: Like, and it took like a month to fully get to be like a month. A month in a week to get to be normal.
Robert Russell: Going to bed and wake up normal nine having no restless leg syndrome. Like, like, like that do you eat right so
Robert Russell: And then so I know like, so it's not that bad. These guys go to anybody has done like pills or heroin know like that's like that's like physical pain and stuff like that. Like some offices is no way means like that.
Robert Russell: Yeah, that's another thing when I get like I like when I'd say that like they're kicking like it though. But with the, I don't mean to be that person, but then like it's just like the with the withdrawals, as it is a runny nose, and you can't sleep.
Robert Russell: And you can't your legs and that's not that bad, as opposed to like throwing up and directing all over your
Robert Russell: stomach cramps.
Robert Russell: Yeah, I mean,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I would empower you to bring that up because if they hear from someone else.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: They they're really going to receive that know Dr. Gabriel says it, but we're thinking, well, this is the doctor and she just had this agenda.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And it's not that when they hear that what we're saying is confirmed by real stories when they can hear from someone that says, listen.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I have support when I go to therapy. I get different skills I write stuff down. This is what's helping me to taper.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Dinner, like, okay, it's not that. Just go, just trying to get him to come to a session. It's not there, just back to Abraham is the gender that everybody has to taper. No, we're speaking works and if
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: People like stop thinking that we have this personal vendetta then they really get in a space where you are, where you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Write the benefits
Robert Russell: Exactly. That's right. That's right. That's right. I would definitely and if I could use this this group as like a crutch to talk about. I'll talk, I'll talk about next week like
Robert Russell: For sure, because I think they do need to hear that because then I think what. How about, like, not everybody I definitely think that's like one or two people that are definitely like
Robert Russell: Because I know that they just like them. They think that the medicine like that. And I had to be like that because this one is missed it. It's like the messed up, but
Robert Russell: Like, it's not like heroin that messes with you like this medicine. When you're worried about like psychologically mess with the likes of god of the kicked you. It's like a like a like a 70% psychological kick, like you're really you just think it's going to be so bad, like it when
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's when somebody is the
Robert Russell: Fear.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right. Everything that withdrawal again. But you said the withdrawal isn't the same as kicking heroin.
Robert Russell: Right anything. It's not the same as kicking anything
Robert Russell: Anything other than that. Exactly. It's like I said, I will definitely talk to them because it'll help anybody like to
Robert Russell: Just because it sucks because it's like the thought if they think that a generic and a name brand is really what's making them feel like shit and
Robert Russell: Bucket, but I used to be like that, though, I really did. I like the worst like so I definitely know 10 plus like I was in a place where I would only be able to just like I would just be able to do a little bit and I would be okay. So I know I am so I know I'm saying, I know what I know.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To get an experience that you used to be there.
Robert Russell: And that's fine.
Robert Russell: Right, exactly. So I know that's why, that's why, then, that's good. I just wanted just to be able to be off of it because
Robert Russell: I know like it is that dependent, whatever it is, because if I didn't have it tomorrow, there would be i wouldn't feel like I feel today and I know that so constantly in back online. Well, I know once I get off of it.
Robert Russell: So I'll wake up every day. The same without having to take nothing remind me, does that
Robert Russell: Mean, yeah, that's what I'm waiting for, for then I'll be definitely 100% free
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: People with their anger management will be telling them to breathe.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, because you know your children.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, you give them opportunity to get the skills and help them to manage their ain't going see that anxiety.
Robert Russell: That's the main part I do it all is that way that because I see a lot of myself and them and I know all. I went to counseling individual counseling from
Robert Russell: My past my mom has a seven teen to all of them as he and I can live with myself like every, every once a week. So for like
Robert Russell: So I thought, I understand. I understand what the counter would say like I did like when I didn't like what I would was like more prone to talk to. And what I would push away so
Robert Russell: I definitely know definitely know like to help them out. Instead of like all the stuff like to say like to
Robert Russell: Say when you get your own place you could do like just I know there's better ways to go about that and stuff but
Robert Russell: I gotta, I gotta get my anger and control my anxiety because I don't always think like that sometimes I think don't think. And then, and then when it comes time to think I'll have all I'm thinking about how am I going to make these guys for giving me being a big time.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. Also keep starting over.
Robert Russell: That
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You got some good stuff, you know that you want to give it a number. You know, you want to discharge that anger.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In a healthy way. And that's through the communication. This right here, being able to express and be able to think
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because of this, and because of that, that's helping you to find ways to communicate effectively so that when you get anxious
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: One you're catching it you're identifying that you're giving it a number to separate it from yourself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I like to say you watch the anxiety, you take you from within and you watch it and you give it a number. And now you literally have control over it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And from there, over time, that anger is going to ship because anxiety is no longer controlling your actions you want
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Every time I lashed out the anxiety has controlled your, your action you know your your girlfriend being there. She helps to control those actions. But how empowered it be that even if she's not there, you're able to do it.
Robert Russell: Yeah.
Robert Russell: And I mean she
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Definitely going to notice that she's like, wow, not to do.
Robert Russell: She is like a big festival. She takes absorbs a lot of my stress. I know cuz she's just like, I don't know. She's and she's Rosanna and sometimes she she gets to get mad and yell at me to shut the fuck up.
Robert Russell: He can't take it. But it's just because like it's been like a week of her taking all my crybaby something from a 35 year old timey
Robert Russell: Look, I'm getting it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That bed.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Taking on all of your she's absorbing your anxiety and your age.
Robert Russell: So even that is a good
To identify
Robert Russell: That five minutes. I once I that's why I learned my mechanisms that can help her out because like we were pretty good our list is pretty good, but I think that like if I can deal with my own stress and she could do with whatever. It's just, she has some for herself. She works too. So
Robert Russell: I think I think you'd have to be a little bit Christina start getting gray hairs here pretty quick mentoring me
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And with the little ones.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah yeah they add to it. There's
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: A real their responsibilities to
Robert Russell: See something else. Yeah, like how walk now. So now she's really around
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The whole time during group like newborn baby.
Robert Russell: Yeah, now she can crawl and she went she can get. Now she learned how to call up the stairs. We got the cool a baby gate, she can't get through, but
Robert Russell: Single machine gun stairs. She's cool mentioned, I walked out a little Walker, she should be like walking by herself. Any day now let's just say mama and data.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Our boy doing a good job. Keep it up.
Robert Russell: Man.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Control of this anxiety, Emily.
Robert Russell: Yes, ma'am.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, you have any questions, lingering thoughts. I have a treatment plan looks like you're making really good progress you have
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Your healthy relationships are you know what's up environments. Cool, boy.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Identify and communication techniques. The only thing I didn't ask you about is there a spiritual practice or component that you identify with that.
Robert Russell: Just Christian Christian
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Good work. Any thoughts or questions for me.
Robert Russell: No, ma'am. No, is it I'm
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So, um,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Let's try to schedule this more often. So we could develop more techniques and practice those throughout, but
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For bill until the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Next time, think about watching that anxiety given it a number and how you control the anxiety, the enzyme troll you
Robert Russell: Yes, ma'am. Right.
Robert Russell: I'll see you on Monday. Alright. See you. Bye bye.